Sure, here is a possible trip plan for your trip to the Faroe Islands:

Day 1:

Depart from Washington Dulles Airport (IAD) on United Airlines flight UA102 at 10:15 AM.
Washington Dulles Airport (IAD)Opens in a new window
en.wikipedia.org
Washington Dulles Airport (IAD)
Arrive in Vágar Airport (FAE) in the Faroe Islands at 1:35 PM.
Vágar Airport (FAE) in the Faroe IslandsOpens in a new window
en.wikipedia.org
Vágar Airport (FAE) in the Faroe Islands
Transfer to Hotel Hafnia in Tórshavn.
Hotel Hafnia Torshavn Faroe IslandsOpens in a new window
www.booking.com
Hotel Hafnia Torshavn Faroe Islands
Explore the city of Tórshavn.
Have dinner at a traditional Faroese restaurant.
Day 2:

Take a boat tour to Vestmanna to see the seabirds nesting on the cliffs.
Vestmanna Faroe IslandsOpens in a new window
en.wikipedia.org
Vestmanna Faroe Islands
Go hiking in Saksun, a picturesque village with a beautiful fjord.
Saksun village Faroe IslandsOpens in a new window
mikeandlauratravel.com
Saksun village Faroe Islands
Visit the Gjogv gorge, a narrow canyon with stunning views of the ocean.
Gjogv gorge Faroe IslandsOpens in a new window
compassandtwine.com
Gjogv gorge Faroe Islands
Have dinner at a restaurant with a view of the mountains.
Day 3:

Take a ferry to Mykines, an island known for its puffin population.
Mykines Faroe IslandsOpens in a new window
en.wikipedia.org
Mykines Faroe Islands
Go hiking to the top of the Mykines Cliffs for stunning views of the island and the ocean.
Visit the village of Mykines, a small and charming village with brightly colored houses.
Take a boat ride around the island to see the puffins and other seabirds.
Stay overnight at Mykines Hotel.
Mykines Hotel Faroe IslandsOpens in a new window
fullsuitcase.com
Mykines Hotel Faroe Islands
Day 4:

Take a ferry back to Vágar Airport (FAE).
Fly from Vágar Airport (FAE) to Washington Dulles Airport (IAD) on United Airlines flight UA101 at 4:35 PM.
Arrive in Washington Dulles Airport (IAD) at 8:40 PM.
This is just a suggestion, of course, and you can tailor the itinerary to your own interests and preferences. I hope you have a great time in the Faroe Islands!

