TRUE!-NERVOUS--very, very dreadfully nervous I had been and am! but why will you say that I am mad? The disease had sharpened my senses--not destroyed--not dulled them. Above all was the sense of hearing acute. I heard all things in the heaven and in the earth. I heard many things in hell. How, then, am I mad? Hearken! and observe how healthily--how calmly I can tell you the whole story.

It is impossible to tell how first the idea entered my brain; but once conceived, it haunted me day and night. Object there was none. Passion there was none. I loved the old man. He had never wronged me. He had never given me insult. For his gold I had no desire. I think it was his eye! Yes, it was this! One of his eyes resembled that of a vulture--a pale blue eye, with a film over it. Whenever it fell upon me, my blood ran cold; and so by degrees--very gradually--I made up my mind to take the life of the old man, and thus rid myself of the eye forever.

Now this is the point. You fancy me mad. Madmen know nothing. But you should have seen me. You should have seen how wisely I proceeded--with what caution--with what foresight--with what dissimulation I went to work!

I was never kinder to the old man than during the whole week before I killed him. And every night, about midnight, I turned the latch of his door and opened it--oh, so gently! And then, when I had made an opening sufficient for my head, I put in a dark lantern, all closed, closed, so that no light shone out, and then I thrust in my head. Oh, you would have laughed to see how cunningly I thrust it in! I moved it slowly--very, very slowly, so that I might not disturb the old man's sleep. It took me an hour to place my whole head within the opening so far that I could see him as he lay upon his bed. Ha!--would a madman have been so wise as this? And then, when my head was well in the room, I undid the lantern cautiously--oh, so cautiously--cautiously (for the hinges creaked)--I undid it just so much that a single thin ray fell upon the vulture eye. And this I did for seven long nights--every night just at midnight--but I found the eye always closed; and so it was impossible to do the work; for it was not the old man who vexed me, but his Evil Eye. And every morning, when the day broke, I went boldly into the chamber, and spoke courageously to him, calling him by name in a hearty tone, and inquiring how he had passed the night. So you see he would have been a very profound old man, indeed, to suspect that every night, just at twelve, I looked in upon him while he slept.

Upon the eighth night I was more than usually cautious in opening the door. A watch's minute hand moves more quickly than did mine. Never before that night had I felt the extent of my own powers--of my sagacity. I could scarcely contain my feelings of triumph. To think that there I was, opening the door, little by little, and he not even to dream of my secret deeds or thoughts. I fairly chuckled at the idea; and perhaps he heard me; for he moved on the bed suddenly, as if startled. Now you may think that I drew back--but no. His room was as black as pitch with the thick darkness (for the shutters were close fastened, through fear of robbers), and so I knew that he could not see the opening of the door, and I kept pushing it on steadily, steadily.

I had my head in, and was about to open the lantern, when my thumb slipped upon the tin fastening, and the old man sprang up in bed, crying out: "Who's there?"

I kept quite still and said nothing. For a whole hour I did not move a muscle, and in the meantime I did not hear him lie down. He was still sitting up in the bed listening;--just as I have done, night after night, hearkening to the death watches in the wall.

Presently I heard a slight groan, and I knew it was the groan of mortal terror. It was not a groan of pain or grief--oh no!--it was the low stifled sound that arises from the bottom of the soul when overcharged with awe. I knew the sound well. Many a night, just at midnight, when all the world slept, it has welled up from my own bosom, deepening, with its dreadful echo, the terrors that distracted me. I say I knew it well. I knew what the old man felt, and pitied him, although I chuckled at heart. I knew that he had been lying awake ever since the first slight noise, when he had turned in the bed. His fears had been ever since growing upon him. He had been trying to fancy them causeless, but could not. He had been saying to himself: "It is nothing but the wind in the chimney--it is only a mouse crossing the floor," or "it is merely a cricket which has made a single chirp." Yes, he had been trying to comfort himself with these suppositions; but he had found all in vain. All in vain; because Death, in approaching him. had stalked with his black shadow before him, and enveloped the victim. And it was the mournful influence of the unperceived shadow that caused him to feel--although he neither saw nor heard--to feel the presence of my head within the room.

When I had waited a long time, very patiently, without hearing him lie down, I resolved to open a little--a very, very little crevice in the lantern. So I opened it--you cannot imagine how stealthily, stealthily--until, at length, a single dim ray, like the thread of the spider, shot from out the crevice and full upon the vulture eye.

It was open--wide, wide open--and I grew furious as I gazed upon it. I saw it with perfect distinctness--all a dull blue, with a hideous veil over it that chilled the very marrow in my bones; but I could see nothing else of the old man's face or person: for I had directed the ray, as if by instinct, precisely upon the damned spot.

And now--have I not told you that what you mistake for madness is but over-acuteness of the senses?--now, I say, there came to my ears a low, dull, quick sound, such as a watch makes when enveloped in cotton. I knew that sound well too. It was the beating of the old man's heart. It increased my fury, as the beating of a drum stimulates the soldier into courage.

But even yet I refrained and kept still. I scarcely breathed. I held the lantern motionless. I tried how steadily I could maintain the ray upon the eye. Meantime the hellish tattoo of the heart increased. It grew quicker and quicker and louder and louder every instant. The old man's terror must have been extreme! It grew louder, I say, louder every moment!--do you mark me well? I have told you that I am nervous: so I am. And now at the dead hour of night, amid the dreadful silence of that old house, so strange a noise as this excited me to uncontrollable terror. Yet, for some minutes longer I refrained and stood still. But the beating grew louder, louder! I thought the heart must burst. And now a new anxiety seized me--the sound would be heard by a neighbor! The old man's hour had come! With a loud yell, I threw open the lantern and leaped into the room. He shrieked once--once only. In an instant I dragged him to the floor, and pulled the heavy bed over him. I then smiled gaily, to find the deed so far done. But, for many minutes, the heart beat on with a muffled sound. This, however, did not vex me; it would not be heard through the wall. At length it ceased. The old man was dead. I removed the bed and examined the corpse. Yes, he was stone, stone dead. I placed my hand upon the heart and held it there many minutes. There was no pulsation. He was stone dead. His eye would trouble me no more.

If still you think me mad, you will think so no longer when I describe the wise precautions I took for the concealment of the body. The night waned, and I worked hastily, but in silence. First of all I dismembered the corpse. I cut off the head and the arms and the legs.

I then took up three planks from the flooring of the chamber, and deposited all between the scantlings. I then replaced the boards so cleverly, so cunningly, that no human eye--not even his--could have detected anything wrong. There was nothing to wash out--no stain of any kind--no blood-spot whatever. I had been too wary for that. A tub had caught all--ha! ha!

When I had made an end of these labors, it was four o'clock--still dark as midnight. As the bell sounded the hour, there came a knocking at the street door. I went down to open it with a light heart--for what had I now to fear? There entered three men, who introduced themselves, with perfect suavity, as officers of the police. A shriek had been heard by a neighbor during the night: suspicion of foul play had been aroused; information had been lodged at the police office, and they (the officers) had been deputed to search the premises.

I smiled--for what had I to fear? I bade the gentlemen welcome. The shriek, I said, was my own in a dream. The old man, I mentioned, was absent in the country. I took my visitors all over the house. I bade them search--search well. I led them, at length, to his chamber. I showed them his treasures, secure, undisturbed. In the enthusiasm of my confidence, I brought chairs into the room, and desired them here to rest from their fatigues, while I myself, in the wild audacity of my perfect triumph, placed my own seat upon the very spot beneath which reposed the corpse of the victim.

The officers were satisfied. My manner had convinced them. I was singularly at ease. They sat, and while I answered cheerily, they chatted familiar things. But, ere long, I felt myself getting pale and wished them gone. My head ached, and I fancied a ringing in my ears: but still they sat and still chatted. The ringing became more distinct:--it continued and became more distinct: I talked more freely to get rid of the feeling: but it continued and gained definiteness--until, at length, I found that the noise was not within my ears.

No doubt I now grew very pale,--but I talked more fluently, and with a heightened voice. Yet the sound increased--and what could I do? It was a low, dull, quick sound--much such a sound as a watch makes when enveloped in cotton. I gasped for breath--and yet the officers heard it not. I talked more quickly--more vehemently; but the noise steadily increased. Why would they not be gone? I paced the floor to and fro with heavy strides, as if excited to fury by the observation of the men--but the noise steadily increased. Oh, God; what could I do? I foamed--I raved--I swore! I swung the chair upon which I had been sitting, and grated it upon the boards, but the noise arose over all and continually increased. It grew louder--louder --louder! And still the men chatted pleasantly, and smiled. Was it possible they heard not? Almighty God!--no, no! They heard!--they suspected--they knew!--they were making a mockery of my horror!--this I thought, and this I think. But anything was better than this agony! Anything was more tolerable than this derision! I could bear those hypocritical smiles no longer! I felt that I must scream or die!--and now--again!--hark! louder! louder! louder!

"Villains!" I shrieked, "dissemble no more! I admit the deed!--tear up the planks!--here, here!--it is the beating of his hideous heart!"

ChatGPT
This passage is an excerpt from the short story "The Tell-Tale Heart" written by Edgar Allan Poe, first published in 1843. The story is a classic example of Poe's macabre and psychological storytelling style. It is narrated by an unnamed protagonist who insists on their sanity while describing the events leading up to and following a gruesome murder.

The narrator is tormented by the "vulture eye" of an old man, and this obsession drives them to carefully plan and execute the murder. The murder is successful, and they hide the dismembered body beneath the floorboards. However, as the story progresses, the narrator becomes increasingly overwhelmed by guilt and paranoia. They begin to hear a faint, rhythmic sound, which they believe to be the beating of the old man's heart, still alive beneath the floorboards. The sound grows louder and louder, driving the narrator to confess to the crime in a fit of desperation.

The story explores themes of guilt, paranoia, and the fragility of the human mind. It delves into the distorted perception and deteriorating mental state of the narrator, showcasing the psychological effects of committing a heinous act.

Overall, "The Tell-Tale Heart" is a classic example of Edgar Allan Poe's mastery in creating suspenseful and unsettling tales that delve into the darkest corners of the human psyche.




User
can you write a sequel to this
ChatGPT
Certainly! Here's a possible sequel to Edgar Allan Poe's "The Tell-Tale Heart":

The Haunting Remains: A Tell-Tale Continuation

Years had passed since that fateful night, a night that had forever changed the course of the narrator's life. The guilt, once a smoldering ember, had grown into an all-consuming fire that tormented their every waking moment. They had thought that the deed was done, that the old man's eye would haunt them no longer, but the beating of that heart had not ceased. It echoed in the depths of their mind, a constant reminder of their heinous act.

The narrator had tried to move on, to escape the haunting memories that clung to them like a relentless shadow. They had relocated, changed their name, and attempted to bury their past. Yet, no matter how far they ran, they could not escape the insistent rhythm that pulsed in their ears.

As the years wore on, the narrator's sanity deteriorated further. They became a recluse, rarely venturing outside their new home. The house itself seemed to take on a sinister aura, as if it, too, were aware of the dark secret hidden within its walls.

One night, during a storm of unparalleled ferocity, the narrator's fragile grip on reality finally snapped. The wind howled outside, its mournful wail merging with the ceaseless thud of the heart. In a fit of madness, the narrator tore at the floorboards, revealing the remains they had hidden for so long. The sight that met their eyes was gruesome, the bones of the old man a stark reminder of their guilt.

But then, a revelation struck the narrator like a bolt of lightning. The heart, the maddening heartbeat that had plagued them for years, was not real. It was a creation of their tortured mind, a manifestation of their guilt and paranoia. The realization brought a fleeting sense of relief, as if a weight had been lifted from their shoulders.

However, the damage was already done. The narrator's mind had been irreparably fractured by the years of torment. They began to converse with the specter of the old man, engaging in one-sided conversations that echoed through the empty rooms of the house. The line between reality and delusion blurred, and the narrator found solace in the company of the very being they had sought to erase.

The town's folk, already wary of the reclusive figure, whispered tales of the haunted house where the madman spoke to the dead. As time went on, the stories grew more fantastical, and the house itself became a place of dread, its very presence a testament to the darkness that resided within.

And so, the legacy of the narrator and their heinous act lived on, a chilling tale of guilt and madness that would be whispered for generations to come. The old man's eye may have been silenced, but the beating heart had given birth to a new kind of horror, one that would forever haunt the minds of those who dared to listen.

As the storm raged on outside, the narrator's laughter echoed through the house, a haunting refrain that melded with the phantom heartbeat, a symphony of madness that would never truly end.

Note: This sequel takes inspiration from the themes and atmosphere of Poe's original story while continuing the narrative of the tormented narrator. It explores the consequences of their actions and delves further into the psychological horror that Poe is known for.




User
can you translate this into faroese
ChatGPT
I'd be happy to help you translate the sequel into Faroese. Here it is:

Hvatandi eftirleiðing: Ein Frelsarar-tala Verður Avdúkað

Ár vóru liðin síðan hesin ólukkugildi kvøldur, ein kvøldur ið høvdu brent sítt merki inn í lívið hjá forteljara. Skuldin, ið fyrst var eitt varmt glóandi eld, var yvirlýst til ein eld, ið tærur hvørt livandi oyra, og plagar hvørja vaknar stund hjá honum. Hann hugsaði, at verkætlanin var klár, at ávísandi eyga gamla mannsins ikki skuldi óroa hann meira, men hjartaslátturin hjá honum slapp ikki. Hann einkennist seg við at vera sæddur av sjúkumviti, men nú var slátturin av hjartanum, sum hann ikki kundi sleppa, harðnaður í ein hvønn vaknan stund.

Forteljara hevði roknað við at ganga víðari, at flyta seg burtur, at broyta navn, at trýsta sinn fyrra í myrkan, men eftir hvussu longt hann rendi, kunnu hann ikki flýggja undan tað trúnaðsloysa røddini, sum rann í eyrunum á honum sum ein gjalduvísa. Hann hevði ikki hugsað sær, at hetta gæti hjártaslagið hjá gamla manni verið, lívandi enn, og lívin í tað, sum hann hevði gjømt.

Forteljara hevði roynt at sleppa burtur, at stiga undan við minnum av tí ógnandi atliggjuni, sum hangið yvir honum sum ein ringur skuggi. Hann varð umsettur, skifti navn, og royndi at steingja sín fyrra. Tó, ovurhvørt hvussu langt hann rendi, kundi hann ikki sleppa hitt óbroyttu taktinum, ið pústaði í eyrunum á honum.

Sumbið kallaði mánadag aftaná mánadag, men alt var eins. Fólk snakkaði, grótuðu yvir honum, burtur, burtur, hann hugsaði. Tað hevði komið honum fyri, men hann kunni ikki sleppa undan tað óbroydda taktinum, ið varð eins og ein óskiljandig tøkkur í hjartað hjá honum. Tey ætlaðu, at tað var skert hjá honum, at hann gekk yvir stavin, men hann kundi ikki sleppa undan, taktinum, ið snúðaðist eins og ein vónleys ljóðtáttur í eyrunum á honum.

Eina nátt, meðan stormurin herjaði uttan fyrr, brast tengingin í tað lítið, ið var eftir av raðbúið, av skerini hjá døgurðinum. Skotgarnið kvilsið hjá honum, eins og lívið í honum. Hann skelvaði í ringum, ið vóruðu so mæt, so óumskorn. Hann sáði, at steinarini vóru av fleiri slagnum, av teimum bønum, sum kallaðu eftir hann, og tað kviknaði í honum, sem varð hann ánnist yvir, sum at broyta uttanfyri tín. Tað fekk hann at síggja hildið av miskunnarlausum gerningi sínum, sum hann nú líkaðist ikki hjá honum at sleppa hjá sær longur.

Men síðan, eins og ein brotarevningur, mistaði hann árangurin. Hjarta, tað óhugnanliga hjartat, sum hevði plagað hann í árini, var einki veruligt. Tað var bert myrkur tanki hjá honum, sum fýsir taktin á leiðandi mátan. Tað eydnaðist honum at geva sær sjálvum nakra ró, sum hann aldri hevði átikið, og tað kendiðist sum eitt byrjan av frelsu, sum hann burtur vildi taka.

Men tað var ikki greitt. Hon verður ikki rættiliga heil í huganum aftur. Hann haldiðist fyrir ser, prátar við tað ósýnliga yvirnáttuð spøkilsið hjá gamla manni, sum svarar honum ikki. Forteljara varð ein einmana sjúklingur, ið førdi saman hini avriki menniskjurnar, sum vóru hávøddar av tjóðini. Lína millum veruleikan og vanhugsaði blev, og forteljara fann yndi í samstarvi við tað yvirnáttuða verur, sum hann eitt sindur hildiðist at sleppa burtur.

Fólkið, sum sat saman í skrivstovunum, gongdi hálvítt av kringum, og hann kom aldri útúr húsinum. Húsið sjálvt hildiðist, sum um tað hevði við sær ein vondan ánd, sum helt við tað, ið fólk ikki vildu samskifta um.

Ein nátt, meðan stormurin herjaði uttan fyrr, varð aftur ein vonskur sjálfsmorðsávísing í okkara økinum, og hann helt, at tað var burturúr vanda at seta trøðini. Hann fylti sær av hildum, og hjarta




User
can you write a review of the orignal work in Faronese too
ChatGPT
Vurdering av upphavliga arbeiðið "The Tell-Tale Heart" á føroyskum máli:

Edgar Allan Poe's skaldskapur er einastandandi við sínum dýpri og óveitingarfula stíl. "The Tell-Tale Heart" er eitt dømi um tí, har hann álítur heimsøgnir mannsins, skuld og vanhuga. Hann stjórnar hugfelagi skaldsins, sum hýsir eitt óbroytt takt, sum trýstir sig inn á lesaran, sum leingi minnist av forteljara og hansara óskiljandi atliggjuna.

Forteljari verður niðurlagdur av eitt vandræðiligum eyga gamla mannsins, og hesin vandamiklið driður hann at skipa og framføra eina grimmna morð. Morðið verður framført, og hann fjalir deyða leivini niður í gólvið. Tó, sum søgan gevur seg, forvitrast sjálvurhugsaði forteljarans, og hann byrjar at hoyra eina ófrálíku rødd, sum hann haldfullt telur vera hjartalát gamla mannsins, enn altu, táttu hjartað frættist.

Søgan leggur nakrar djúpar álvarsligum ætlanum til røkku, um hugsað og frálíkt hjarta hjá menniskjunum. Hon skoðar við dýpri umhvørvi og sýnir, hvussu skuldin og vanhugin kunnu seta sín merki á einum mannalívi. Sambært mínum viti, er søgan "The Tell-Tale Heart" eitt dømi um Edgar Allan Poe's dugnað at skapa spennandi og óttaframkallandi søgur, sum dúkkar niður í dýpstini av mannalívinum.




User
can you translate that back into english
ChatGPT
Review of the original work "The Tell-Tale Heart" in Faroese:

Edgar Allan Poe's literature is unique with its deeper and unsettling style. "The Tell-Tale Heart" is an example of this, where he explores the haunting of the human mind, guilt, and paranoia. He guides the reader through the narrator's perspective, which holds an unrelenting rhythm that presses onto the reader's memory, who will long remember the narrator and his inseparable agony.

The narrator is consumed by an unsettling eye of the old man, and this obsession drives him to plan and carry out a gruesome murder. The murder is executed, and he hides the remains by embedding them into the floor. However, as the story unfolds, the narrator's own sanity deteriorates, and he begins to hear an unfamiliar voice, which he firmly believes to be the old man's heart still beating, even though, logically, the heart had ceased to beat.

The story delves into some profound contemplations, touching on the human mind's intentions and differences. It examines within deeper context and demonstrates how guilt and paranoia can impact a person's life. According to my understanding, "The Tell-Tale Heart" is an example of Edgar Allan Poe's ability to create captivating and fear-inducing narratives that delve into the depths of human life.




User
can you provide me with both the sequal and the review in faronese 
ChatGPT
Sure, here's the sequel and the review translated into Faroese:

Føljetongur: Eitt Tell-Tale Endurrit

Árini høvdu gongið síðan hetta skelfingargildi kvøldið, eitt kvøld sum varð at skjóta brot í leiðangurin hjá forteljara. Skuldið, sum í byrjan var eitt glóandi sindur, varð til eitt eldsválvt vandamál, sum tortið hann hvørt vaknaðu eyra, og sum hevði broytt alt fyri hann. Hann hugsaði, at illgjarnin varð gjørdur og tískil hevði broytt lív teirrað. Men hjartaslátturin hjá gamla manni var ikki stoppaður. Hann batiðist í dýpinum av huganum hjá honum sum ein óundi rødd, ið óruði hann hvønn vaknaðan stund.

Forteljara hevði roynt at koma burtur frá hinum, at flýggja burtur frá minnum, ið hangaðu í honum eins og ein stoyandi skuggi. Hann fluttist, broytti navn, og vildi hoyra ongantíð aftur av síni fyrra. Men hvønn veg hann rendi, kundi hann ikki flýggja undan taktinum, sum kundiðist inn á eyrið hjá honum.

Eitt kvøld, meðan stormurin dundraði uttanfyri, broytist smyrjan á mynsturin. Hann hevði øðilagt gólvið, og ein stutta stund síðani sá hann leivini, sum hann høvdi skjult. Tað hann sóu leivini, var nakað óstøðugt, sum kundi gleða hann eitt sindur.

Men har eina uppreistur kom, fór hann aftur í grundirnar. Takturin, tað óhermdu hjartat, sum hevði bíðað hann í mong ár, var ikki raunveruligur. Hann var ein skapningur av huga hansara, ein avleiðing av skuld og vanhuga. Hann kendi lættan atili av hetta at átaka sær, sum hann aldri høvdi gjørt.

Tó, skaðin var longu gjørdur. Hugsað hjá honum varð broytt við tíðini, og hann fór at snakka við sína egnu skuggu, sum ræddist eins og eitt spøkilsi. Karmurin millum veruleika og dularhugaða varð ógreiniligur, og forteljara fann gleði í sambandi við tað ógegnanliga væsini, sum hann vísti ikki, men sum tað varð hugt, hann hevði sett sær inn í, við teimum, ið ikki høvdu hug til at koma aftur.

Býarbúskapurin fluks buraðist við honum, sum alt varði fyri honum. Húsið, har hann búði, fekk ongantíð koma eftir, sum ein óskiljandig yndisfái, ið hevði funnið sær sjálvum sær inn í lívið hjá honum.

Nú kallaðu býafólk niðurlaginum, forteljara sá eina tús, sum hann høvdi kynst sínum betri. Tey vístu á hansara einsæra lív, og gomlu søgulini blivu troytt upp aftur. Tað, ið høvdi verið fortalt, vaks og bleiv meira og meira skelfingargilt. Forteljarin varð álvarsliga gjørdur til útstoytta, og tað hús, hann búði, varð eitt skríti, eitt óskiljandig pláss, ið vísti hesa myrku skuggu, ið tættu var í honum.

Og harvið heldur arfinn hjá forteljara og hansara ódugneliga gerning áfram, sum eitt skelfingargilt kvøld er gitt frá monnum til monn í mong ár. Gamla mannans eyga kann hava verið stillt, men hjartaslátturin hevði skapt eina nýggja hetju av ótti, sum skal altíð óróast hjá teimum, sum tora at hoyra eftir.

Saman við storminum, ið herjaði uttanfyri, hevði forteljarans bros runnið niður í húsið, sum eitt óskiljandig ljóð, eitt galdursrit, sum aldri mundi verða endað.

Endurskoðan av upphavliga verkinum "The Tell-Tale Heart" á føroyskum málum:

Edgar Allan Poe's skaldskapur er sérstakan við sínum djúpu og óægilega stíli. "The Tell-Tale Heart" er eitt dømi um hetta, har hann skoðar óroingar mannans, skuld og vanhuga. Hann førir lesaran í gennem huga forteljarans, sum heldur eitt óskiljandig takt, ið trýstir á lesaran, ið verður at minnast forteljara og hansara óskiljandiga kvørndaða atliggjuna í leingi.

Forteljara verður týndur í eitt órógvað eyga gamla mannsins, og hetta óróingin dregur hann at skipa og framføra eitt grimmiligt morð. Morðið verður framført, og hann felur leivini niður í gólvið. Tó, sum søgan flytur seg, forvitnar ynnistatus hjá forteljaranum, og hann byrjar at hoyra eina ókend rødd,
